10/25/2011  8:15 am
Burroughs subverted the Word with cutups and montage. Did Thoreau
attempt the same with "packed statement"? (Canby's term). I'm not sure I
know what a "packed statement" is, but it seems to be a sentence with
high information density--an open statement that conveys more than it
seems to. Or else it is an indigestible lump of prose that has to be
taken as it is, without being broken down or digested into a discourse
"stew". In other words, if this is true, Thoreau attempts to build up
new sentence structures through a complicated process of composition,
while Burroughs breaks down old sentences with cutup and montage and
outright borrowing or theft.

"American Cranks".

From Canby:

> The rhetorical quality that many feel, even in Thoreau’s best writing,
is sometimes only a tone and attitude which he sustains, like a good
lecturer, through all of such a book as the ‘Week’ or ‘Walden.’ Yet I
think that the difficulty which the modern reader finds in what seems to
him the stylized writing of ‘Walden,’ or even of the ‘Excursions,’ has a
more important source in this habit of the packed and intensely
expressive sentence. Our education in science, or its derivatives, has
made us more inductive in our mental processes than were our immediate
ancestors. We are accustomed to the kind of writing — especially in
newspapers and magazines — that assembles facts, which we call news. The
packed statement, which is a deduction handed over for our thinking, is
unfamiliar and inspires distrust. Our writing escapes the dogmatic by
being dilute and often inconclusive. It is easy to abbreviate, as the
success of such magazines as The Reader’s Digest has shown. We write,
not by sentences, not even by paragraphs, but in a stream directed at
one outlet. The reading of poetry had decreased in proportion to the
increase of this homeopathic way of writing, for the effectiveness of
poetry is an effectiveness of charged words and lines. If it is not to
have high specific gravity, it would be better to write in prose.
Thoreau suffers from this changed habit of reading, since his sentences,
with their backs to the wall, and their feet on Mother Earth, differ
from poetry in this respect only in a freer rhythm. Henry Seidel Canby
Thoreau


