September 27 2010
I had a lot of work this mornng I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. The cat has been scratching at a grocery sack full of books and it makes a huge racket that woke me up several times. The noise doesn't make me angry any; it just makes me a little sad, something that I accept fatalistically, like living on a noisy street. I got up to feed him twice, one at midnight, once at 3.00 am. Luckily, I don't think LW woke up at all which probably made her day a little better. 

I've been reading an article about Kafka's papers in the NYT Magazine. Apparently his executor, Max Brod, hung on to a suitcase full of Kafka's notes and diaries and sketches during WWII (he escaped from Prague about five minutes before the border was closed). When he died, Brod willed the suitcase to his secretary/lover, who gave it to her elderly daughters upon her death at age 101. The daughters want to give the papers to the German Literary Institute, which many Jews find unacceptable; after all, the Germans don't have a good history of taking care of Kafka's things (like his sisters, who died in the Holocaust). The one daughter, most involved in the legal procedings, lives in a house with 40 to 100 cats, which can't be good for the papers stored there. She also has a deep, disturbed relationship to the papers, showing up unnounced at one of the inventories in a bank (the papers are in her appartment and in banks in Tel Avis and Zurich).  Recently she lost a court ruling and the papers are being inentoried this fall.


The papers probably aren't all that interesting in themselves; its possible that they might yield some interesting short stories but the serious novels were all published by Brod in the 20s. The point of this article for me was to show that I probably need to read more Kafka, as I only read the Metamorphosis in high school, and a part of the Trial in college. I mean, really now. 

Also, I did some reading up on Kafka in Wikipedia; he was a constant diarist for most of his adult life and used them to break through creative blocks. On exception was during the time 1917-1919, when he dropped the diaries and wrote more creatively in what came to be know as the Blue Octavio Notebooks (published in the 1950s). Exracts are availabl online of both the diaries and the notebooks. 

There's a lot to Kafka's papers, and this represents only the 10 percent that he didn't destroy. It sounds like he wrote constantly.

The article hints that the papers themselves aren't very interesting, in that they won't bring us close to a "true" Kafka. The reason is the remarkable role that Max Brod plays, as Kafka's closest friend and his biggest supporter. Brod proably edited Kafka quite often, and the work is in some sense collaborative. One anonymous Dutch scholar thinks, not for attribution, that Brod actually wrote Kafka's stuff (Brod was a writer himself) and then passed the material off as Kafka's as he thought it would be too controversial.  


I've also been reading Tom McCarthy Remainder, his first novel, published by a small art gallery in Paris in 2005 and republished a couple years later to a good bit of critical interest. It isn't as good as C of course, and its quite an intellectual book, which may or may not be a good thing. Its certainly interesting, and also is a solid experimental and postmodern offering. I just think that McCarthy did a much better job in C. 

My friends on Facebook are terribly uninteresting. One can't spell, another kvetches about the education system, a third posts endless updates on the Vikings and on NASCAR. I just post Hipstaprints of Emmie. I'm not sure what I"m looking for but this stuff isn't for me. Am I didficult? Am I a snob? Do I expect too much out of people Do I really want anything out of the world besides book recommendations? If nothing else Facebook makes me ask these questions and think about them.


The weather was pretty good today, even though I didn't et out at noon...my legs were too tired from walking all oer yesterday--at the parade, at the farm, and so on. I did go across the street for a roast beef sandwich at the BAdger Market. I have a great appetite for those things, with the garlic mayo and the good white bread from Clausens. Too bad they're around five and a half bucks.

 